#	Event
0	1 | Broken Lanterns The survivors hear the crunching of glass beneath their feet. The event revealer may choose to investigate or continue their journey. If they choose to investigate, the event revealer rolls on the table. Otherwise roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt event board. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 - 3 The event revealer fumbles and cuts their foot on a jagged shard. Taking 1 event damage to~their legs. / 4 - 8 The event revealer finds a broken lantern basic resource. / 9 + The survivors uncover a long-abandoned lantern hoard. The forlorn sight fills them with dread and each survivor suffers 1 brain event damage. After composing themselves. Each survivor scavenges 1 broken lantern basic resource from the remains. *INVESTIGATE*
1	10 | Harvester This event cannot be rerolled or avoided in any way. The ground quakes violently as a colossal worm bursts from the ground beneath the survivors, its skin a mosaic of screaming faces. The mere sight of it is maddening, and all survivors suffer 1 brain event damage. If any sunrivor has any noisy gear, the Harvester is drawn to the sound and they are instantly devoured whole. All other survivors must spend 1 survival or be devoured. Devoured survivors are dead, gone forever with no hope of recovery.
2	100 | The Finale A terrific thunder crashes in the distance. An electrifying dread washes over the survivors. All survivors suffer 2 brain event damage. The survivors may choose to investigate. Otherwise they panic and retreat in the opposite direction. Move back 2 hunt spaces on the hunt board and continue hunting as normal. If the survivors investigate, all survivors gain + 1 courage and gingerly approach the origin of the sound. As they travel, they pass the shattered corpses of strange beasts. lf any survivor has 3+ understanding, they follow the trail of corpses. Otherwise, draw 3 basic resources harvested from the corpses and end the event. It the survivors arrive this far, they see a massive knight, his armor reflecting a worn gold in their lantern light. Caked in blood, the knight leans against the side of a titanic winged creature. The event revealer must roll on the table. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 The knight locks eyes with the survivors. If any survivor has less than 3 courage, they are struck dead. All other survivors flee in horror. The knight speaks, its thunderous voice quakes the ground. Any survivors with less than 3 understanding suffers the deaf severe head injury. The knight extends his arms, offering them his gear. The survivor with the highest courage (roll off in case of ties) gains the Steel Sword and Steel Shield gear. The knight‘s chest heaves. He exhales a plume of dense, black smoke that covers the survivors. When it clears, the knight is gone and in his place is a massive lion-faced hammer. The survivor with the highest courage (roll off in case of ties) gains the Thunder Maul gear. When the survivor takes it in hand, a current of electricity runs through their body. The weapon and the survivor are joined forever.
3	11 | Monster Droppings The survivors find some monster droppings. They might be from the beast you are hunting. The event revealer must choose to either investigate or consume the droppings (choose only one). If the event revealer investigates, roll on the table and gain +1 understanding. D10 Event revealer - Investigate = 1- 3 You have no idea what feces this is, but it's sickening. Suffer -1 survival and roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board. / 4 - 6 The droppings tell a story. The survivors are on the right track. Continue on the hunt board normally. / 7 + You know these droppings well. You may skip the next hunt space. If the event revealer consumes, roll on the table and gain +1 courage. // d10 Event revealer - consume = 1 - 3 Bad idea. Gain -1 evasion token. / 4 - 6 It‘s repulsive. Replace your name with ‘Scat Man.’ Everyone in the settlement calls you by that name from now on. / 7 + There was something quite special about these feces. Gain + 1 speed and + 1 strength token until the end of the showdown. *INVESTIGATE*
4	12 | Destiny-Bound The survivors collectively feel a heightened level of anticipation. Their goal is close at hand. The event revealer gains +1 courage! If the showdown occurs in the next 2 event squares, the survivors ambush the monster.
5	13 | Overload The event revealer falls to their knees sobbing uncontrollably. They've simply had too much. Scrambling to understand, the survivor must select to despair or never give up. Announce the choice out loud and roll 1d10. [= 1]Consult the result below: Even result + despair = Gain 1 survival. Odd result + despair = Suffer -1 survival. Even result + never give up = Gain +1 accuracy token. Odd result + never give up = Gain -1 accuracy token.
6	14 | Chance Encounter The survivors encounter a bewitching, barefoot waif. She exclaimes wildly at the survivors. The Savior's presence fills everyone with the alien feeling of hope. All survivors gain + 1 courage and +1 understanding. All injury levels are fully healed. In addition, if the survivors have innovated Symposium, she insists that she will accompany them on their hunt. [rollsurvivor]
7	15 | Man-trap The event revealer has sprung a terrible trap! Roll on the table. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 With a terrible crash, the steel jaws of the man-trap cleanly sever your foot. Suffer the dismembered leg severe injury unless the survivor rolls d10 at or below their current luck bonus.. / 2 - 4 Mangled leg. Reduce armor points at the legs location to 0 and suffer 1 event damage to the legs. / 5 - 6 The trap is quite old and weak, suffer 1 event damage to the legs. / 7+ The event revealer's foot knocks into the trap, giving everyone a scare! The trap was already sprung, leaving an unfortunate prize in its jaws. Gain 1 random basic resource.
8	16 | Night Terrors Your miserable sleep is plagued with mind-bending nightmares. All survivors must roll 1d10. lf their result is equal to or less than that survivor's current insanity, they gain a random disorder (add Hunt XP to the die roll). If the result is greater than their insanity, they gain +1 understanding.
9	17 | Face-to-Face One stone face in the sea of many catches the event revealer's eye. The event revealer may investigate. Gain +1 courage and roll on the table. Otherwise, roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 The face is identical to your own. Spend 1 survival or reduce your understanding by 2. / 2 - 7 The face reminds you of someone dear, your heart aches with loneliness. If your survival is higher than your insanity, suffer 1 brain event damage. / 8 + The face is your own, but older and wiser. Gain 1 survival and 1 understanding. *INVESTIGATE*
10	18 | Dead Weed You find a strange plant growing from the eyes of a stone face. The survivors try to harvest it by rolling on the table below. If any survivor has the Bone Sickle, add +2 to the result. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 - 7 Try as you might, you cannot pull out the deeply-rooted weed. / 8 + You pull the weed free! It has strange regenerative powers and may be used to cure all instances of 1 severe injury, even dismembered limbs. It must be used immediately, otherwise it crumples into dust in your hands when you move on. Each survivor may use the curative power once, curing one severe injury.
11	19 l Exhalation of Darkness The survivors are enveloped in a steamy darkness that dims their lantern lights. While stumbling in the muggy dark, each survivor suffers from heat exhaustion, losing 1 survival. If any survivor has 0 survival they suffer 1 event damage to a random location. Every survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest scoring survivor (in case of tie the tied survivors are treated as one, add their rolls together and consult the following) becomes a straggler. Each straggler rolls on the table below. Straggler = 1 - 2 A piece of armor is destroyed by the corrosive heat. Archive a gear card of your choice. / 3 - 5 Something unseen attacks you, suffer 1 brain event damage and 1 event damage to a random location. / 6 - 8 You're struck from behind by a flailing survivor, suffer 1 event damage to the head. / 9 + You're not sure how, but you leave the darkness with your hands full, gain 1 random basic resource. *STRAGGLER*
12	2 | Corpse The survivors are overcome by a sudden chill, their breath seizing in their lungs. The survivors freeze, each losing 1 survival. At the center of the sudden frost is a perfectly preserved corpse. If your settlement chose the Cannibalize death principle, the event revealer gains 1 random basic resource. If you chose the Graves death principle, the event revealer gains +1 courage and +1 understanding. Roll 1d10, on a 6+ the event revealer suffers 1 brain event damage.
13	20 l Dry Lands As the survivors press forward, the air tums dry and the ground cracks. Each survivor will suffer from heat exhaustion and lose 1 survival unless they have a piece of gear or resource that is consumable to refresh themselves. Do not archive the item.
14	21 | Drawings Cowering in a cave, the survivors find strange drawings decorating the walls. They appear to carry a message. Any survivor with 3+ understanding may try to decipher the drawings by rolling on the table. If your settlement has innovated Pictographs, add +2 to the result. 1d10 Any survivor with 3+ understanding = 1 - 3 Your nose begins to bleed. Suffer 1 brain event damage. / 4 - 7 The true meaning escapes you. Gain +1 insanity. / 8 + The drawings teach you a secret way to fight monsters! Gain the following Fighting Art: [rollfightingart]
15	22 | Acid Rain The darkness above is suddenly alight with a storm of acid rain. It smells terrible, bums flesh, and begins to form hissing pools in the upturned mouths of the stone faces. All survivors suffer 1 event damage to every hit location as they scramble to find shelter. Event revealer rolls 1d10, adding in the highest investigate bonus in the party. [= 1]On a roll of 6+ they find shelter before suffering the damage. *INVESTIGATE*
16	23 | Clean Water The survivors pass a forlorn fountain in the shape of a lion face. A stream of crystal clear water flows from its mouth. Each survivor consumes the water. Gain 1 courage and 1 survival. In addition, each survivor may douse their head in the water and roll on the table. 1d10 Any survivor = 1 - 2 Your hair turns white the instant it is wet. Gain 1 random disorder. / 3 - 5 Your head is wet. Nothing else happens. / 5 - 8 The water is bracing. Gain +1 understanding or remove a disorder. / 9 + The water is shockingly cold - it rushes over you like a tidal wave and leaves you awestruck. Set your insanity to 0 and remove all disorders.
17	24 | Food from the Mouths of Others The survivors pass a stone face that appears to be holding something in its mouth. The event revealer Investigates. Gain 1 courage and roll on the table. D10 Event revealer = 1 - 2 You yell out in pain and pull your hand back, revealing a bloody gash. Did the stone face just bite? Suffer 1 brain event damage and 1 event arm damage. / 3 - 5 Just a trick of the lantern light. / 6 - 8 More rocks, what did you expect? Gain a Founding Stone. / 9 + You pull out a masticated mass. Gain 1 random basic resource and 2 insanity. *INVESTIGATE*
18	25 | Titans in the Dark An ear-shattering bellow marks the passing of a truly titanic beast. All survivors suffer 1 brain event damage. The survivors cower on the ground, lying as flat as possible and hoping they are simply too small to be worth eating. Every survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest scoring survivor (in case of a tie for the low roll, add the tied people's rolls together and apply to each of them) becomes a straggler. If any survivor has noisy gear. -2 to the roll result. Each straggler rolls on the table below. 1d10 Straggler = 1 You're plucked from the ground and eaten whole. Dead. / 2 - 4 Something snatches you in its great maw and chews you for 1 event damage to 1d5 random hit locations. / 5 - 6 The clamping jaws barely nip you! Suffer 1 event damage to a random hit location. / 7 - 9 You make yourself extra flat against the ground and avoid anything terrible. / 10 + You never stop running from what you saw. Gain +1 permanent movement. *STRAGGLER*
19	26 | Pit The ground beneath the event revealer‘s feet gives way, and they plummet into a pit below. The event revealer rolls on the table, adding their current Luck bonus. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 The fall mangles your legs. Suffer the broken leg severe injury twice. / 2 - 3 Your leg breaks your fall. Suffer the broken leg severe injury once. 4 - 6 You land at the bottom with a loud thud. Suffer 2 event damage to a random hit location and archive any fragile gear in your gear grid. / 7 - 9 You land at the bottom with a soft thud. Suffer 1 event damage to a random hit location. / 10 + You manage to grab the edge of the pit and escape unharmed.
20	27 | Man-Stealers Exhausted, the survivors rest. During their fitful sleep. A small insect creature approaches undetected. Choose 1 random male survivor and roll on the table. If there are no male survivors, nothing happens. 1d10 + current Luck bonus. Random male survivor = 1 - 5 when you awake, your genitals have been stolen. In their place is nothing but smooth skin. Suffer the destroyed genitals severe injury. / 6 + You awake with a start, terrified to find menacing pincers approaching. Your defenses are quick. Without thinking, you wallop the insect crawling on your pants, suffering 1 event damage to the waist.
21	28 | Trollbird A rumpled, unsightly bird stands in the survivors‘ path. Its beady, wet eyes blink expectantly and it calls out with an eerie human chuckle. The survivors may archive 1 consumable item or gear, offering it to the trollbird. If any survivor is insane, they must feed the trollbird if they have anything consumable. If they feed the trollbird, it hops off with a terrible cackle (add +3 to the following roll). If they don‘t feed the troilbird, it follows the survivors on their hunt, constantly mocking them with its chuckle. Roll 1d10. Apply the results when the showdown begins. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 - 5 The trollbird makes a terrible racket, alerting the monster. The monster ambushes the survivors. All survivors gain +1 understanding. / 6 + The trollbird mocks and distracts the monster as the survivors sneak up. The survivors ambush the monster. All survivors gain +1 insanity.
22	29 | Dark Blacksmith The survivors cross paths with a tall, unnaturally thin man in a hooded robe. Where his feet strike the ground, sparks illuminate his path. Each survivor with 3+ courage may give him one piece of gear and roll on the table. 1d10 Any survivor with 3+ courage = 1 - 2 The creature raises the object to its mouth and eats it. It's gone. Archive the gear card. / 3 - 6 The creature places the gear into the darkness of its robe then returns it, hissing angrily. Suffer 1 brain event damage. / 7 - 8 The creature unhinges its jaw and eats the piece of gear. In return. it hands you a shining shield. Gain the Steel Shield rare gear. / 9 + The creature unhinges its jaw and eats the piece of gear. In return, it hands you a shining sword. Gain the Steel Sword rare gear.
23	3 | Cancer Pigeons The survivors are surrounded by an echoing coo of infant babble. Strange baby-faced birds circle overhead. Gripped with instinctual horror, the survivors break into a run! Every survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest scoring survivor (or survivors, in case of ties) becomes a straggler. If any survivor has noisy gear, -2 to the roll result. Each straggler rolls on the table. 1d10 straggler = 1 - 2 Running and flailing wildly. You suddenly find yourself panicked and alone. The waiting cancer pigeons descend and mercilessly peck your back. Their happy cooing filling your head with horror. Your body is stricken with cancerous illness. You cannot gain survival. Record this impairment. The other survivors find you bailed up and weeping on the ground. / 3 - 4 A cancer pigeon latches onto your back! Shake it free by spending 1 survival. Otherwise. Your body is stricken with cancerous illness. Vou cannot gain survival. Record this impairment. / 5 - 6 You escape the terrible creatures. / 7 + You manage to strike one of the foul creatures down. Gain 1 random basic resource. *STRAGGLER*
24	30 l Rotten Faces The stone faces start to give under the survivors‘ feet. The faces are bloated and smell terrible. Each survivor must roll on the table. 1d10 Each survivor = 1- 2 Your foot gets stuck and you quickly begin to sink into the ground. After a struggle you manage to break free. If your survivor had leg armor, it is lost in the muck. Archive the gear. / 3 - 5 Mired, you struggle to break free! Roll again on this table or spend 1 survival to escape. / 6 - 9 You escape without incident. / 10 + You find something gross drudging through the rot! Gain 1 random basic resource.
25	31 | Strange Path The survivors stop at the head of a path. Small lanterns twinkle, marking its edges. The event revealer decides if the survivors follow the path. If the event revealer is insane (3+ insanity), they must follow the path. If the survivors follow the path, roll on the table below, adding the event revealers understanding to the result. Otherwise, roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 A colossal finger descends from above, crushing a random survivor. They suffer 2 event damage to every hit location. / 2 - 4 A random survivor tears off hysterically along a branch in the path when this event ends. They rejoin the other survivors, ghostly pale and with no recollection of what happened. Reduce their survival to 0. / 5 - 7 The path twists and turns dizzyingly into the dark. All survivors suffer 1 brain event damage, then roll again, adding +2 to the result. / 8 - 9 The path leads the survivors to a large stone face with lanterns for eyes. Inside its open mouth is a bounty. Each survivor gains 1 random basic resource. / 10 + The path leads to the beast you are hunting! When the survivors reach the quarry's square, they ambush the quarry.
26	32 | Sudden Madness The event revealer is devastated by a piercing cacophony in their head. Roll 1d10. If the result is equal to or less than the revealer‘s current insanity they go mad, lashing out at the other survivors! All other survivors suffer 1 event damage to a random hit location. After the damage is dealt, the event revealer regains control and everyone warily moves on.
27	33 | It Whispers Your Name The event revealer trips over a protruding nose in the ground. The lips of a stone face begin to move! If the survivor has no name, the lips stop moving and nothing else happens. Otherwise, the lips seductively whisper the survivor's name. If that survivor is insane they are drawn in, savagely kissing the face. Repulsed and outraged, the other survivors suffer 1 brain event damage before pulling the crazed survivor from the ground and moving on. If the survivor is not insane, they gain +1 understanding.
28	34 | Crippling Misery Every survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest-scoring survivor (or survivors, in case of ties) becomes a straggler. Any straggler rolls 1d10 = 1 - 5 They are overcome with a crippling misery and loneliness, suffering 2 brain event damage. / 6+ The party finds them and lifts their spirits. *STRAGGLER*
29	35 | Broken Lantern Oven The survivors come across the shattered ruins of a small settlement. Scattered corpses dot the ruins, disintegrating at the merest touch. An extinguished lantern oven stands intact at the center of the settlement. If any survivor has 3+ understanding, the survivors‘ settlement gains the Lantern Oven innovation. If they already have this innovation, the event revealer harvests a broken lantern basic resource from the remains. If no survivor has 3+ understanding, the sight throws the survivors into a fit of rage, and they smash the lantern oven. All survivors gain +1 insanity.
30	36 | On the Trail The survivors rush forward, feeling their quarry close at hand. If the quarry is in the next two hunt event squares, the survivors ambush their quarry. If any survivor has noisy gear, the survivors do not ambush. Start the showdown normally.
31	37 | Lost The survivors are hopelessly lost in the unbroken darkness. Move the survivors 2 spaces away from their quarry.
32	38 | Gregalope A massive Antelope stands astride the horizon, its ancient body bloated with tumors and scar tissue. Its milky eyes catch sight of the survivors and it bounds away. Driven by a sudden desire, the survivors give chase. The event revealer rolls 1d10 and adds any base speed attribute to the result = 1 The survivors quickly fall behind the majestic beast. Move 1 space away from the quarry on the hunt board. / 2 - 9 The Gregalope is far too fast. lt is gone before you know it. / 10-11 The survivors lose sight of the Gregalope but discover a hidden path. You may re-roll the next result on the hunt event table. / 12+ Just before it leaps out of view, the Gregalope bows its mighty antlers. The event revealer gains +1 permanent movement.
33	39 | Heavy Mist A heavy mist envelops the survivors, obscuring their lantern Iight. Roll 1d10. [= 1] If the result is even, the survivors stumble in the right direction. Next hunt tum, move normally on the hunt board. / lf the result is odd, the survivors are turned around. Roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board. If the showdown begins in the hunt board space following Heavy Mist, the monster ambushes the survivors.
34	4 | Famine The journey stretches dizzyingly before the Survivors. Stomachs grumbling in the dark, the hunt begins to take its toll. The survivors grow weak and anemic. All survivors gain -1 movement token, unless the survivors have killed something in a hunt event prior to this space. If so, then they eat some of the meat from their battle. Each survivor in this case gains a +1 Strength token.
35	40 | Dream The event revealer has a dream of the upcoming hunt. They stand before the great beast, weapon ready, but it strikes them down. If the event revealer has 3+ courage, emboldened by the dream, the event revealer gains +1 evasion token. Otherwise, the dream is merely rattling, suffer 1 brain event damage. If the quarry is one or two event spaces away, the survivors will ambush the quarry at the beginning of the showdown.
36	41 | Nightmare The event revealer has a dream of the upcoming hunt. They stand before the great beast, weapon ready, but it strikes them down. If the event revealer has 3+ courage, the dream is merely rattling. Suffer 1 brain event damage. Otherwise, crippled with anxiety, the event revealer gains a -1 evasion token.
37	42 | Surgeon A creaky carriage approaches the survivors. Richly appointed in red and gold, the carriage is carved on every side with lurid faces. A massive eye adorns the front, while the door of the carriage is a waiting open mouth. Out of a small window, a gnarled hand beckons. A survivor with 3+ courage may choose to enter the wagon. They may immediately remove one impairment or severe injury (even if it is permanent) and then roll on the random disorder table, adding their current insanity to the d10 roll.
38	43 | Fresh Kill Circling carrion birds point the survivors to a freshly-killed monster. The local scavengers try to defend their dinner, but the survivors can fight them off to claim their prize. Each survivor rolls 2d10 and adds their hunt experience to the result. The highest-scoring survivor slays the most scavengers and claims the putrid prize for themselves. Gain 1 random basic resource.
39	44 | Opportunists While investigating their quarry‘s tracks, the survivors realize they are hunting not one but two monsters. The two sets of tracks soon separate, leaving the event revealer to pick which tracks to follow. lf they follow the larger tracks, continue hunting as normal. If they follow the smaller tracks, start the showdown immediately. At the start of the showdown the monster suffers 5 wounds. lf the survivors are victorious. They gain half the basic resources and half the monster resources (rounded up) from rewards in the aftermath.
40	45 | Jagged Valley A valley of sharp white stones opens before the survivors like a toothy maw. As the survivors push and climb through the jagged spires, they find even the shallowest cuts bleed without stopping. Each survivor takes 1 event damage to their body. In addition, if they aren't carrying a bandage item, they suffer blood loss, gaining 2 bleeding tokens. Each survivor may spend 1 survival to avoid getting cut. Each survivor rolls 1d10 = 1 - 5 nothing else occurs / 6 - 10 find a founding stone.
41	46 | River The survivors come to the edge of a river. They must fan out to pick up the trail again. Each survivor may consume from the river and roll on the table below. Roll once more on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board as you try to find your quarry. 1d10 Any survivor = 1 - 2 The water is filled with all manner of vile things. Your body is ravaged by parasites. From now on. when you consume, receive no benefits and suffer no penalties. Record this impairment. / 3 - 5 Your prey has defecated in the water. Suffer 1 event damage to a random hit location as you lay retching on the riverbank. / 6 - 9 The water is almost clean. Heal 1 injury level from any hit location. / 10 + The river is filled with the bloated corpses of unrecognizable monsters. Fishing in the muck, you contract dysentery. Gain 1 random basic resource and reduce your survival to 1.
42	47 | Banquet Trees A small copse of trees rises over an otherwise lifeless plain. Enticing red fruit hangs from the branches. Each survivor must spend 1 survival to resist temptation. Insane survivors may not spend survival to resist. Otherwise, roll 1d10, resisting on a result of 7+. [= 1]If they fail, survivors eat from the banquet trees and become addicted to the fruit, refusing to leave. Suffer -1 survival, then roll again to resist. If a survivor with 0 survival fails to resist, they suffer 2 event damage to a random location and roll again to resist. The survivors move on when no more survivors are eating the fruit.
43	48 | Death Wager The survivors are awoken by a traveler hidden in a deep cloak. The traveler removes his hood to reveal a face whose jaw has been split in two. Two chins curve away from each other, each with its own mouth. Ln a dreamlike state, the survivors all understand this entity is known as The Gambler and if they speak they will die. Until this event is completed, only the event revealer can speak. If any other player speaks. Their survivor turns cold and is dead. The survivors must play The Gambler's game or be trapped with him forever. Each player must roll on the table. 1d10+Luck bonus on Each survivor = 1 The Gambler reaches out his hand and scoops up your dice. As it vanishes within a fold of his cloak. you feel all traces of air leave your lungs and are unable to draw another breath. Dead. / 2 - 9 You do not lose. nor do you win. Play again if you wish. If you do. roll again on the table. / 10+ You win. Gain +1 permanent luck.
44	49 | Oil Fields The landscape is dotted with large red mounds oozing oil. The smallest spark threatens to ignite the foul-smelling mounds. Roll 1d10 event revealer. [= 1] On a result of 1 or 2, the fields ignite and all survivors take 1 event damage to a random hit location.
45	5 | Flesh Fields Ahead, the stone faces on the ground give way to a field of man-sized fleshy boils sprouting thick black hair. The fleshy fields radiate moist heat. As they travel, every survivor suffers heat exhaustion, losing 1 survival. The event revealer rolls on the table. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 The event revealer contracts a flesh-eating disease brushing past the giant boils! A random limb is affected and must be amputated immediately! Roll 1d10, 1-5: arm. 6-10: leg. Suffer the dismembered severe injury at this location. / 2 - 3 If any survivor is insane (3+ insanity and < 4 courage). they imagine the flesh fields are attacking! They become hysterical, flailing and tangling themselves in the thick hair. Each insane survivor suffers 1 event damage to a random location. If 3+ insanity but 4+ courage, they cut a portion of the flesh free, gain 1 hide basic resource each. / 4 - 7 It's hot and gross. but the survivors pass through the flesh fields with no complications. / 8 - 9 The event revealer makes the best of a bad situation and cuts a portion of the flesh free. Gain 1 hide basic resource. / 10+ Each survivor harvests 1 hide basic resource from the flesh fields.
46	50 | Gibbet A crude iron cage swings from the branches of a massive tree. As the survivors approach, a person calls out to them from the cage, pleading to be freed. The survivors may pass by and suffer 1 brain event damage as the prisoner weeps and pleads. If the survivors choose to free them, the event revealer rolls on the table. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 The survivors open the cage but all they find inside is a skeleton. All survivors suffer 2 brain event damage. / 2 - 7 The prisoner is thankful and follows the survivors until they rest. When they wake, each survivor loses 1 random resource (if they had any). / 8 + The prisoner is grateful and follows the survivors home after the showdown. The settlement gains +1 population. [rollsurvivor]
47	51 | Refugees The survivors encounter a group of fleeing settlers. If the survivors have innovated Symposium, they may offer the refugees a piece of gear or a resource. If they do, archive the offering. lf the suvivors gave the refugees an offering, they will stop to tell their mournful tale about the monster that besieged them. Now prepared for what lies ahead, at the start of the showdown, reveal the first 5 Al cards from the quarry‘s Al deck and put them back in any order.
48	52 | Madflies Tiny, persistent insects swarm the survivors, flying into their ears and nostrils. The bugs buzz maddeningly in their heads, growing louder as they near their quarry. At the start of the showdown, the madflies reach a frenzied peak as the survivors prepare for battle. For the first 3 rounds of the showdown, the survivors gain +2 strength tokens and suffer 1 brain damage at the beginning of each round. On the fourth round, the gestating eggs hatch, exploding from the survivors‘ mouths in a cloud of buzzing chaos, knocking them down. Remove the strength tokens at this time.
49	53 | Mask Salesman The survivors meet a traveling Mask Salesman on the road. He insists that he has special wares to offer. Take one copy of each mask from the Mask Maker gear and shuffle them, drawing one at random. This is the mask the salesman is offering. The event revealer rolls 1d10 to determine the price on the table and gains the mask. 1d10 Event revealer = 1- 2 The salesman silently points at you. Instinctively, you hand him his asking price in exchange for the mask. Archive 1 gear from your gear grid and reduce your survival to 0. / 3 - 6 The salesman silently points at you. Instinctively, you hand him his asking price in exchange for the mask. Archive 1 gear from your gear grid. / 7 + As he imparts the mask to you, the Salesman's lips form the sounds of the survivor's name. It (the name) is gone. In exchange for the mask, give your survivor a new name (must be different) and +1 survival for naming your survivor.
50	54 | Bone Storm Mighty windstorms often blow across the open plains. Occasionally they grow so strong that they collect chips of stones and skeletal remains in their shearing depths. The survivors may brave the storm. lf they do, each survivor suffers 1 event damage to 3 random hit locations, gains +1 courage, and archives all fragile gear. Otherwise, the survivors take shelter from the biting winds. You must roll twice on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board.
51	55 | Mudslide A flash mudslide sweeps the survivors away. Each survivor must roll on the table. 1d10 Each survivor = 1 - 2 You're swept along, drowning in mud. Suffer 2 event damage to a random hit location and archive all fragile gear in your gear grid. Roll again on the table. / 3 - 7 You manage to scramble free, but not before taking a serious beating. Suffer 2 event damage to your body and archive all fragile gear in your gear grid. / 8 - 9 You reach higher ground. You're caked in mud, but otherwise unscathed. / 10 + You remember being pulled under, the sensation of mud forcing itself down your throat, then nothing else. After the mudslide passes, the other survivors find you unharmed. Gain 1 insanity.
52	56 | Dead Monster The survivors find a rotting monster corpse of the same kind they are hunting. While the corpse is too rotten to be of any use, if any survivor has 3+ understanding, the survivors can cover themselves in the dead monster's spilled blood. The stench will help the survivors sneak up on their quarry. If the survivors move into their quarry‘s hunt board space, they ambush. If no survivors have 3+ understanding, the starving survivors feast on the rotting corpse. All survivors lose control of their twisting guts. Each survivor gains -1 strength token and no one can consume any items during the next showdown.
53	57 | Gorm’s Laughter The rhythmic wail of a Gorm's laughter reaches the survivors, filling them with fear. The Gorm's laughter will follow the survivors, tormenting them until they reach their quarry. Place 1 token on every remaining hunt board space. When survivors move into a space with a token, remove the token and all survivors suffer 1 brain event damage. The survivors have the option of taking the fight to the horrible Gorm. If they choose to do so, begin the showdown immediately and ignore the use of the tokens.
54	58 | Scent on the Wind A strong wind blows, bringing with it the scents of distant places and things. The event revealer rolls on the table. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 - 5 The monster catches your scent. It moves one space closer. lf this movement starts the showdown, the monster ambushes the survivors / 6 + The survivors smell their quarry‘s foul odor and surge forward. The survivors may skip the next hunt space. If this movement starts the showdown, the survivors ambush the monster. If any survivor has noisy gear, the survivors do not ambush. Start the showdown normally.
55	59 | Signs of Battle The survivors come upon the remains of a terrible battle between their quarry and some unknown foe. The event revealer may choose to investigate. If they do, gain +1 courage and roll on the table. Otherwise, roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 - 2 The monster springs out of the dark, taking advantage of the distracted survivors. The showdown begins immediately and the monster ambushes the survivors. In addition, during showdown setup, place the event revealer directly in front of the monster. / 3 - 7 The remains are human. Filled with sadness and anger, each survivor suffers 1 brain event damage. If the survivors chose Graves as their death principle they bury the dead, and each survivor gains +1 survival. lf they chose Cannibalize as their death principle, gain 1 random basic resource. / 8 + The remains of the tremendous beast prove useful. The event revealer gains 1 random basic resource.
56	6 | Faceless Statue The survivors come upon a faceless statue holding a shining lantern in hand. Basking in the warm light, the survivors are renewed. Each survivor gains 1 survival. If the survivors wish, they may rest here longer. If they do, the survivors can heal 1 injury level on 1 hit location. If they choose to rest, move the quarry 1 space away from the survivors on the hunt board as they lose track of it. If all survivors are insane and have < 4 understanding, they cannot rest. Move to the next hunt board space immediately.
57	60 | Wildfire A massive wall of flame confronts the survivors. Beyond it, a path of destruction. Archive any hunt event cards in the next 2 hunt spaces. The fire has destroyed whatever awaited the survivors. The next 2 hunt spaces will be especially chaotic. Roll twice on the hunt event table before moving through each hunt board space, resolving each event one at a time.
58	61 | Frozen Lightning A storm sweeps over the survivors. Deep purple lightning flashes overhead. The bolts freeze in mid-strike and rain down on the survivors as jagged, glowing spikes. Every survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest scoring survivor (or survivors, in case of ties) becomes a straggler. The straggler is caught in an explosion of razor sharp crystals as a bolt crashes beside them. Suffer 1 event damage to 2 random hit locations, and archive all fragile gear in the survivor's gear grid.
59	62 | Space Between the Rocks The survivors find themselves distracted by a dark crack in the stone face floor. Every survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest scoring survivor (or survivors, in case of ties] becomes a straggler. Unable to tear themselves away, the straggler stoops to gaze into the depths until the other survivors drag them away. Whatever the straggler glimpsed changes them forever. Gain a random disorder. lf all the survivors end up as stragglers, the entire party is lost. Dead.
60	63 | Feet The stone faces ahead are replaced by an expanse of stone feet sprouting from the ground. The survivors walk sole-to-sole with the feet. If any survivor is insane they are convinced they have reached the underside of the world. Terrified of falling off, they grab hold of the ground for dear life, slowing the party and attracting unwanted attention. Roll once on the hunt event table for each insane survivor before moving on the hunt board. If any of these rolls result in Feet again, ignore and re-roll. If all survivors are insane, they hang onto the feet for a day, losing time in the hunt. Skip the next hunt event space.
61	64 | Stone Fountain A pair of cupped stone hands rise out of the ground. The hands hold clear, cold water that trickles through the stone fingers in a seemingly endless supply. Any survivor may choose to consume from the fountain. Gain +1 courage and roll on the table. Any survivor with binge eating dis- order must consume. If no one consumes, roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board. 1d10 Any survivor = 1 - 4 The water is clear until it passes the survivor's lips, where it turns to blood. You spit out the foul liquid and suffer 1 brain event damage. Survivors with hemophobia disorder suffer 1 event damage to their body as they vomit violently in disgust. / 5 -8 lt‘s water. Refreshing. / 9 + The water is clean and pure, like none the survivor has ever tasted. Gain +1 survival.
62	65 | Statue Cresting a hill, the survivors find a statue of a man sitting on a throne. If any survivor has 9+ understanding, the survivors walk past without incident. Otherwise, every survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest scoring survivor (roll off in case of ties) becomes a straggler. The straggler is drawn to the statue, touching it gently. In an instant, the straggler is gone and replaced by the man from the throne, who is now flesh and blood. The straggler sits in his place on the throne, stone mouth open in a silent yell. The man offers his thanks and joins the hunting party without explanation. The straggler is dead, replaced by a new survivor as below: [rollsurvivor]
63	66 | Forbidden Word There is a great rush of air followed by a booming voice. A word is spoken in an unknown language by an inhuman voice. Just for an instant, the survivors understand. All non-deaf survivors gain +1 understanding and suffer 1 brain event damage. Insane non-deaf survivors also gain 1 random disorder, adding 1 to the roll for every 3 current insanity points.
64	67 | Saliva Pools The ground ahead is pockmarked with pools filled with a gooey liquid. The pools bubble merrily and stink of digesting meat. As the survivors move between the pools, they are overcome by waves of nausea. Each survivor rolls 1d10. If the result is less than their current survival, they continue on. If the result is greater than their survival, they vomit into a nearby pool suffering 1 event damage to the body and gain +1 understanding. They witness the pool greedily dissolve their vomit. If any survivor has 3+ understanding, they devise a way to use the pools. Each survivor may place one gear in a pool. Archive the item, it is lost. The survivor gains the resources used to craft that gear.
65	68 | Familiar Faces If the settlement has not lost any survivors yet, ignore this event and roll again on the hunt event table. Otherwise, every survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest scoring survivor (or survivors. in case of ties) become a straggler. While examining the stone faces underfoot, the straggler recognizes the face of a fallen friend. Bittersweet memories bring the straggler to tears. Reduce insanity to 0 and gain +1 understanding.
66	69 | Time Lapse The survivors experience a blinding pressure in their skulls. Roll on the table. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 -2 All survivors suffer 1 brain event damage. / 3 - 9 The survivors are dragged into the past. Move 1 space back on the hunt board and roll hunt table events for the next space as normal. If this is the first hunt event space, nothing happens. / 10 + The survivors are flung into their future. Move two spaces ahead on the hunt board, skipping any events in those spaces. If they reach or pass over their quarry, start the showdown immediately and the astonished survivors ambush the monster.
67	7 | Hungry Ground The ground suddenly splits and a gaping stone mouth attempts to devour the event revealer whole! The event revealer rolls on the table. D10 = 1 with a muffled scream, the survivor disappears into the ground. Bones crunch between stone teeth. The event revealer is devoured whole. The event revealer is dead. / 2 - 5 The event revealer scrambles but their leg is caught in the terrible maw. Suffer 2 event damage to the legs. / 6 - 9 The survivor manages to leap away in time! / 10+ Burp! Gurgle! The floor vomits a shiny piece of scrap. The event revealer gains 1 broken lantern basic resource. *ADD ANY EVASION BONUSES TO THIS ROLL*
68	70 | Tomb of Excellence The survivors find a serene, luxurious tomb, immaculate in its construction and condition. Elegant murals decorate the walls, depicting glorious victories over the very monster the survivors are hunting. The survivors are baffled by its presence. Roll on the table. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 The survivors experience a false sense of confidence in their hunt and lose 1 survival each. / 2 - 6 it's nice to see something pretty for once. huh? Nothing happens. / 7 - 9 The survivors can’t remember the last time they felt this cheerful and inspired. Each survivor gains +1 courage. / 10 * The sight is invigorating. Gain +1 courage. At the start of the showdown, the monster suffers 1 wound.
69	71 | Found Relic Amidst the endless stone faces, the event revealer notices an unusual object on the ground. Roll on the table. 1d10 Event revealer = 1- 2 You find a weathered purple stone with a swirling texture. It is shockingly heavy. Mesmerized by the stone, you hide it from the other survivors. Gain -1 movement token as you lug the stone around. / 3 - 7 You find a stone heart that pulses with warmth as you hold it in your hands. Gain +1 insanity. / 8 - 9 Useless junk litters the ground. / 10 + You find a glittering relic of forgotten knowledge. If you return to the settlement, the relic‘s secrets are revealed. At the start of the next Settlement phase, draw 3 innovations from the innovation deck and add one to your settlement at no cost. Return the other innovations to the deck and shuffle.
70	72 | Something to Pass the Time If the survivors have not innovated Symposium, ignore this event and roll again on the hunt event table. If the survivors have innovated Symposium, the event revealer suggests a word game to lighten the mood as the survivors trudge forward. Roll on the table. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 - 2 The survivors‘ boisterous voices attract their quarry and the monster ambushes them. / 3 - 7 No one else is in the mood for game. The event revealer loses 1 courage. / 8 ~ 9 The survivors play the simple but entertaining game, gaining 1 courage each. / 10 + The game is astonishingly fun, and the survivors’ spirits soar with laughter. Roll 1d1O for each survivor. If the result is 6+. that survivor can cure 1 disorder or gain 1 survival.
71	73 | Wailing Fire The survivors hear a terrible shrieking in the distance. The event revealer may investigate. If they do, all survivors gain +1 courage. They come upon a towering pyre burning intensely. The wail from the fire rattles their skulls. All survivors suffer 1 brain event damage. If they do not investigate, roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board.
72	74 | Antler-Gouged A great battle of dominance between two enormous antelope has left the stone-faced ground gouged with criss-crossing scars. Each survivor must roll on the table below. 1d10 Each survivor = 1 - 2 The survivor trips over the jagged ground, hurting their leg. Gain the torn muscle severe leg injury. / 3 - 8 The survivor treads carefully over the destroyed faces. / 9 + The survivor finds a loosened stone. Gain a Founding Stone gear.
73	75 | Oops! Stumbling through the darkness, the event revealer's lantern swings wildly, bumping against heir body. The living light inside the lantern becomes agitated by the survivor's clumsiness, burning 1 piece of gear. The event revealer must archive 1 gear card of their choice.
74	76 | Dream the Way The survivors dream vivid fevered visions of the hunt ahead. All at once, they awake with a start and frantically compare the horrors they foresaw. Each survivor rolls 1d10. lf any result is the same, those survivors discover they had the very same dream. Each gain +1 insanity. If the duplicate results are also 10, once during this hunt phase the survivors may re-roll a roll result.
75	77 | Sinkhole A gaping sinkhole suddenly opens under the survivors, revealing a swirling black pool of ichor below. Each survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest scoring survivor (or survivors, in case of ties) become a straggler. Each straggler rolls on the table below. lf any survivor has a whip weapon, it can be used to aid the straggler. Add +2 to the result of this roll. 1d10 Straggler = 1 You are swallowed by the sinkhole. You are pulled to the surface moments later, but completely naked, your gear hopelessly lost in the miasma. Archive all gear in your gear grid. / 2 - 4 The other survivors haul you up, but not before 1 piece of gear is sucked below the surface. Archive 1 gear of your choice from the gear grid. / 5 - 9 You are dragged to safety, terrified but unharmed. / 10 After a monumental effort, the other survivors pull you free and find someone else clinging tightly to your feet (+1 population). Each survivor suffers 1 brain event damage.
76	78 | Dead Great Game Hunter The survivors find a corpse dressed in brightly-colored clothing, clutching something to its chest. The event revealer may choose to investigate. If they do, they gain +1 courage and roll on the table. Otherwise, roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 He was holding an explosive. Moving it causes it to detonate, it blows off the event revealer's hand. Gain the dismembered arm severe injury. / 2 - 4 He was holding an explosive. It explodes but the event revealer pulls away before disaster strikes. Gain -1 accuracy token. / 5 - 9 His hands are empty. If your settlement chose Cannibalize as their death principle. gain 1 random basic resource. If your settlement chose Graves as their death principle. the event revealer gains +1 understanding. / 10 + His hands contain a jeweled bottle filled with a chartreuse liquid. The event revealer gains 1 Frenzy Drink gear.
77	79 | Dying Small Prospector Slumped against a large stone face, the survivors find a small, dying prospector riddled with arrows. As they approach, he growls a warning, threatening them with a hue stone shard. When he sees that they are not evil monsters, he calms down and gives them a key. With his dying breath he says: This is the key to the portcullis. Without it, you will never get through. Record the Portcullis Key in the settlement record sheet notes.
78	8 | Wailing Smoke A constant moan follows the survivors. Eventually, they enter an area shrouded in thick fog and the wailing reaches a fevered pitch. Every survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest scoring survivor (in case of ties for the low roll, skip this event and roll another) becomes a straggler. Each straggler rolls on the table. If any survivor has noisy gear, the straggler adds +2 to their roll. D10 Straggler = 1 - 3 The fog around the straggler turns black and fills with shapes of tormented faces. The straggler is driven to madness and gains a random disorder. Ignore this if the survivor is deaf. / 4 - 6 The fog grows soupy and begins to wail. The straggler plugs their ears with their fingers, but it's hopeless. Suffer 1 brain event damage. Ignore this if the survivor is deaf. / 7 - 9 The straggler sticks their thumbs into their ears and breaks into a run, leaving the wailing smoke. / 10+ Mimicking the disturbing smoke, the straggler starts to wail and gains +1 insanity. *STRAGGLER*
79	80 | Lovelorn Rock The survivors pass a ring of stones with an unassuming boulder at the center. Every survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest scoring survivor (randomize in case of ties) becomes a straggler. The straggler is smitten with the rock. They heft the boulder (it's heavy!) and carry it everywhere. Forever in love, the straggler loses one gear slot permanently to the rock. This survivor must always leave one gear space empty to hold their rock. The rock can be lost like normal gear. Record this on your survivor sheet.
80	81 | Scattered Lanterns Four lanterns lay discarded in the survivors‘ path. Each survivor may spend 1 survival to gain +1 understanding. If any survivor has 3+ understanding, they suffer 1 brain event damage as they ponder who left the lanterns and why. Roll 1d10 Event revealer = 1 - 4 They are useless junk. /5 - 6 Find 1 Broken Lantern resource. / 7 Find 1 Pulse Lantern item. / 8 Find 1 Dying Lantern item. / 9 Find 1 Vibrant Lantern item. / 10 Find 1 Sunspot Lantern item.
81	82 | Consuming Grass Vibrant green grass grows in patches ahead of the survivors. Closer inspection of the delicate leaves reveals them to be as sharp as any fine blade. Carefully picking their way past the verdant hazards, a random survivor stumbles and becomes the straggler. Roll on the table. 1d10 Straggler = 1 The survivor lands in the grass patch. Quickly climbing to their feet, they realize it's too late. The parts of their body that touched the ground are sprouted with sharp grass blades. Any attempt to remove the grass spreads it further over the survivor's body. During the showdown, the monster treats the afflicted survivor as if they are already dead. The monster cannot target the survivor or trigger any reactions when the survivor attacks. At the end of the showdown, this survivor dies. / 2 - 9 The survivor falls, but dexterously manages to avoid touching the grass with bare skin. One gear item does fall in. Archive 1 gear of your choice or keep it and treat this result as if you rolled a 1 on this table. / 10 The survivor stops their fall before it's too late.
82	83 | Flesh Monolith The survivors approach a 5-sided monolith made of flesh that stretches into the darkness overhead. Limbs and faces of humans and creatures alike protrude from all sides. Roll on the table. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 The limbs of the monolith spring to life, grabbing you and tearing you limb from limb, joining the parts of your body to the monolith with maddening efficiency as you are ripped apart in a shower of gore. Dead. All other survivors‘ courage is reduced to 0 and they suffer 3 brain event damage. / 2 - 4 Hands and tentacles grasp at you. Spend 1 survival or treat this result as if you rolled a 1 on this table. / 5 - 9 All survivors are driven back with horror, suffering 1 brain event damage. / 10 + A dead survivor is reborn. The monolith rushes into the ground, leaving a previously fallen survivor in its place. Take a record sheet of a dead survivor and resurrect them with only a Founding Stone and Cloth gear. The reborn survivor may accompany the survivors on the hunt or return to the settlement (+1 population). When they die, they rot away into mush and form a new Flesh Monolith, leaving no corpse behind. If the survivors have never lost anyone, nothing happens.
83	84 | Scribe‘s Book A huge, ornately-bound book lays open before the survivors. If the survivors‘ settlement has innovated Pictographs, any survivor with 3+ courage may write their name in the book. If any survivor has 3+ courage and is Insane, they must write. Roll on the table below, adding your understanding to the result. If no one writes in the book, roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board. 1d10 Any survivor = 1 - 4 As you finish writing your survivor's name you know that you did something terribly wrong. Your survivor vanishes from history. They are dead. Archive their gear. / 5 - 8 Nothing happens. / 9- I0 As you write your name, you feel restored. Heal all injury levels and lost armor points. Gain +2 survival. / 11 - 14 You feel assured that as long as your name is in the book nothing bad can happen to you. Choose to gain two of the following: +2 courage. +2 understanding, or +2 survival. / 15+ You leave an undeniable mark on the world. You feel more substantial. Gain +1 understanding, +1 courage, +1 survival, +1 permanent speed, and +1 permanent strength.
84	85 | Test of Courage Lava flows from the eyes of a huge, grimacing stone face. Its gritted teeth appear to hold a worn sword. If there are any survivors with 6+ courage, choose one to brave the lava and gain the Adventure Sword gear. lf no survivor gains the sword, roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board.
85	86 | Quarantine Camp The survivors smell the camp long before they see it. A squalid collection of tents and dirt hovels, the camp is all that remains of families exiled from their village when they contracted a strange disease. Each survivor rolls 1d10. On a result of 1 or 2, they catch the foul rotting disease of the exiles and gain the leprosy impairment. From now on, reduce all damage suffered by 1 to a minimum of 1. When rolling on the severe injury table, -2 to any result. Record this impairment.
86	87 | Weeping Faces Water flows from the eyes of the surrounding stone faces, gathering in a small pool. Any survivor may choose to consume from the pool and roll on the table below. Add +2 to the result if the survivor has 3+ understanding. Insane survivors begin to weep uncontrollably. lf any survivor is insane, roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board. 1d10 Any survivor = 1- 3 The water is salty and sour. You can't help thinking about what you might be drinking. Suffer 1 brain event damage. / 4 - 6 Refreshing. Nothing happens. / 7-8 The water is cleaner than most. You may heal up to 2 injury levels on any one hit location. / 9+ The water is invigorating. Gain +1 speed token.
87	88 | The Sword and the Statue A statue twice as tall as any man sits before a great anvil with a hammer in each of its six hands. Transfixed, the survivors watch the statue beat a red-hot sword that lies across the anvil. Each survivor, starting with the event revealer and moving clockwise, may attempt once to grab the sword from the anvil. If a survivor makes an attempt, they gain +1 courage and roll on the table, adding their hunt experience to the result. End the event if a survivor successfully takes the sword. 1d10 Any survivor = 1- 2 As you get close to the anvil, the statue grabs hold of the sword and plunges it into your body. There is a sharp hiss as the hot metal cools in your blood. You are dead. / 3 - 8 You make a quick grab for the sword, but not quick enough. Gain the dismembered severe arm injury. / 9 - 13 You may not be quick enough to grab the sword, but at least you're not foolish enough to lose your hand trying. / 14+ Your speed is legendary. Gain the Muramasa gear.
88	89 | Cleaner Birds Tiny ragged birds with needle-thin beaks fly overhead. Every survivor must roll 1d10. The lowest-scoring sun/ivor (roll off in case of ties) becomes a straggler. The birds swarm the straggler. One bird forces its way into the straggler‘s mouth and down their throat. The straggler vomits up the well-fed bird, their insides scrambled and scarred. Suffer -1 permanent speed and +1 permanent luck.
89	9 | Golden Light A golden light blinds the survivors, stopping them in their tracks. The light shines from a single source. The event revealer may investigate or wait for the light to fade. It they wait, roll again on the hunt event table before moving ahead on the hunt board. If the event revealer decides to investigate, they gain +1 courage then roll on the table. D10 Event revealer = 1 The light is overpowering. The fragile mind cannot understand what it is saying. Gain 1 random disorder. / 2 Harvester This event cannot be rerolled or avoided in any way. The ground quakes violently as a colossal worm bursts from the ground beneath the survivors, its skin a mosaic of screaming faces. The mere sight of it is maddening, and all survivors suffer 1 brain event damage. If any survivor has any noisy gear, the Harvester is drawn to the sound and they are instantly devoured whole. All other survivors must spend 1 survival or be devoured. Devoured survivors are dead, gone forever with no hope of recovery. / 3 - 5 You wander through the light, bathed in a warm, awful feeling. You don‘t find anything, but suffer 1 brain event damage from exposure. / 6 - 8 The bright light turns out to be caused by the glow-tip of a Gorm! Begin showdown. / 9+ Something about the light stirs you, and your resolve intensifies. Gain +1 survival. *INVESTIGATE*
90	90 | Light on the Horizon The survivors hear a screeching howl, followed by a crash, and finally an explosion of multicolored light on the horizon. The unnatural light illuminates the survivors’ way. The survivors may re-roll the next result on the hunt event table. lf all survivors are insane, they turn away from the light, walking into the darkness. Move the survivors 2 spaces away from their quarry on the hunt board.
91	91 | The Beginning The survivors stumble upon the scene of their settlement’s first hunt. Whether they've seen it themselves or heard of it through stories, they immediately recognize it. Seeing the spot of their settlement's first triumph is electrifying. Each survivor gains +1 survival. If the settlement has innovated Saga, each survivor gains +1 courage. If the settlement has innovated Storytelling, each survivor gains +1 understanding.
92	92 | Failed Start The survivors find the tattered remains of four humans. Clad in loincloths and clutching stone shards, they bear the distinct marks of White Lion claws. EACH survivor suffers 1 brain event damage and gains 1 Founding Stone gear. If any survivor has 3+ understanding, they gain +1d10 insanity. Roll 1d10 event revealer = if equal or below event revealer's current understanding score, the survivors may track this white lion. If so, begin showdown with a white lion.
93	93 | Lost Survivor In a hollow between two identical rocks, you find a corpse with fabulous hair, clutching a book to its chest. lf the settlement innovated Pictographs, the event revealer may read from the book. The book tells the tragic tale of two survivors, whom found a love they could never have. 1d10 Each survivor = 1 - 3 Page 3 - Dual Nature. The lovers‘ settlement is destroyed, and they are stolen away. The event revealer feels conflicted. After the showdown, they leave the settlement forever in search of something. / 4 - 6 Page 6 - The man spent years undergoing countless tortures for the sake of his beloved. Each torment only served to strengthen the man's resolve. If you have 3+ understanding. Gain +1 permanent speed, the Anxiety and Traumatized disorders. / 7 + Page 9 - The man escaped, yet never returned. He knew that if he did, it would mean the death of his beloved. He decided it was best for him to fade into memory to protect the few smiles his existence had inspired. If you have 3+ understanding, gain +1 courage, Tough and Last Man Standing fighting arts.
94	94 | Sickening Mess The survivors come upon a patch of badly-damaged ground. The stone faces are cracked and debris is strewn everywhere. Piles of toxic-smelling dung and half-digested viscera litter the area. The survivors pause to investigate the mess. Each survivor gains +1 courage and rolls on the table. Add each survivor's understanding to their result. If any survivor is insane, they may not investigate. In- stead, they consume what they find and make themselves sick. Gain -1 strength token. 1d10 Each survivor = 1 - 2 You become lightheaded sifting through the piles of dung; uncontrollable gagging ensues. Gain -1 strength token. / 3 - 8 Heaving, eyes filling with tears, your sickening hunt pays off. Gain 1 random basic resource and suffer 1 event damage to a random hit location. / 9 + Your intuition pays off! Gain 1 random basic resource.
95	95 | Grim and Frostbitten There is a dead stillness in the air. The atmosphere becomes thick with worry and the survivors carry on nervously. Soon, a bitter, evil cold sets in and there is no shelter. Huddling together for warmth, the survivors suffer 3 event damage to any unarmored hit location (armor that has no remaining armor points is still considered armored for this event).
96	96 | Cauldron The smell of cooking meat draws the survivors to a gigantic black cauldron. The pot is filled with a thick dark stew. Any survivor may choose to consume the stew and roll on the table. Insane survivors (3+ insanity) and survivors with binge eating disorder must consume. If a survivor has 3+ understanding they may put a consumable gear or resource into the pot to gain +2 to the roll result. 1d10 Any survivor = 1- 2 You try to eat, but the cauldron is empty. It calls out to be filled. You slice deep into your own flesh to nourish the cauldron with blood. Gain a random non-lethal severe injury to your arms. / 3 - 4 No matter how much you eat you're still hungry. Gain the Binge Eating disorder. lf you already have this, suffer -1 survival instead. / 5 - 8 The stew tastes like warm blood. Gain +1 survival and +1 insanity. / 9 + The dreams of the poor creature that last fed the cauldron fill your mind. Choose to gain one; +3 weapon proficiency levels (if you don't have a weapon type selected. select 1 now) and 1 random disorder, +1 permanent strength, or cure 1 severe permanent injury.
97	97 | Living Stone The ground suddenly shifts and rises sharply into the air. The survivors find themselves clutching the back of a giant creature that lay sleeping beneath their feet. Every survivor rolls 1d10. On a result of 6+, they hold on. All other survivors plummet to the ground below and archive all fragile gear in their gear grids. Survivors who fall take 1 event damage to a random hit location and continue to hunt as normal. If some survivors hold on, they are absent from the rest of the hunt phase and rejoin the group when the showdown starts. Elect one of these survivors to roll on the table. 1d10 Elected survivor = 1 You plummet into the darkness. All survivors who held on are dead. / 2 - 4 Fall off. Survivors who held on rejoin the other survivors on the ground and take 1 event damage to each hit location. / 5 - 8 Circle back. Survivors who held on each gain 1 Founding Stone gear and join the showdown in the second round. / 9 + Heroes arrive first. Survivors who held on rejoin at the beginning of the showdown phase and ambush the monster.
98	98 | Glowing Blood The survivors find a trail of their quarry‘s blood, evidence of some horrific battle. The event revealer may taste the monsters blood. The blood brings a vision of the upcoming battle. The event revealer places a token on any space on the hunt board. If the survivors start the showdown on this space, they ambush the monster. Roll again on the hunt event board before moving on the hunt board.
99	99 | Portcullis The survivors approach a massive portcullis standing in the darkness. It is not attached to anything and does not bar their way. They may choose to walk around it. If they do, roll again on the hunt event table before moving to the next hunt space on the hunt board. lf the survivors’ settlement has the Portcullis Key, they may use it. Each survivor gains +1 courage. The portcullis creaks open, and the survivors step through. 1d10 Event revealer = 1 Inside, a dank gloom awaits the survivors. The port- cullis suddely slams shut behind them and the lights of their lanterns begin to dim. The last thing the survivors see is the grimace of fear on each other's faces as the dark closes in. The survivors are dead. / 2+ Inside, a dank gloom awaits the survivors. At their feet lies an ornate crucible with a void in the shape of a mighty weapon. The survivors gain the Perfect Crucible strange resource. If they have a Blacksmith in their settlement, they may now craft a Perfect Slayer.
100	A Lonely Tree is spotted – choose to avoid it … or encounter it.
101	A pit opens up beneath the event revealer. It has sharp spikes lining the walls and floor. All survivors except event revealer roll 1d10+evasion. On a 9+ that survivor grabs the event revealer and pulls them back from the edge. If none succeed, the event revealer rolls 1d10+evasion = 1 They land on a spike and die. / 2 - 4 Event revealer lands hard between numerous spikes. They suffer bruises and lose 1 survival. The other survivors help them climb out without further incident. / 5 - 9 The event revealer dodges away from the pit just in time! / 10 The event revealer avoids the pit, and spots an item hanging from a spike. Find one random item.
102	An unusually large White Lion (the Radiant Lion) is charging after a human. If the survivors intervene, use The Messenger of the First Story setup from KD Beta Scenarios Book-3-19.pdf. Note that if the (LY: 8) number is higher than the current Lantern Year of the settlement, modify the monster's rolls as follows. Current Lantern Year is lower by: 1-2 -1 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -1 Toughness, -1 random AI card / 3-4 -2 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -2 Toughness, -2 random AI cards / 5-6 -3 Accuracy, -1 Strength (max 2), -3 Toughness, -3 random AI card / 7-8 -4 Accuracy, -2 Strength (min 1), -4 Toughness, -4 random AI cards / 9-10 -5 Accuracy, -3 Strength (min 1), -5 Toughness, -5 random AI cards / 11+ skip this event. Roll 1d4 = 1 Add a Lonely Tree to the board / 2 - 4 Normal board layout. The survivor is: [rollsurvivor]
103	Bug Swarm: A swarm of oversized vermin attack the survivors. Begin a showdown using the normal randomized board, but with (LY/5 rounded up) vermin in each corner. Each takes up one grid. They Move: 4, Health: 1, Acc: 5+, Damage: (1+1 per vermin adjacent to this vermin). Reward if survivors … survive: (LY/3 rounded up random vermin items)
104	Hunting party stumbles in to an abandoned settlement. Roll 1d10 event revealer = 1 - 3 the [rollmonster1] that forced the settlement to be abandoned is still there (fight or avoid) / 4 - 7 salvage d3 random resources left behind / 8 - 10 find the trail that the previous survivors took.
105	Hunting party stumbles in to an abandoned settlement. Roll 1d10 event revealer = 1 - 3 the [rollmonster1] that forced the settlement to be abandoned is still there (fight or avoid) / 4 - 7 salvage d3 random resources left behind / 8 - 10 find the trail that the previous survivors took.
106	Marked Territory. The creature being followed has marked this area. If any survivor has 3+ understanding, they realize the area is covered in ammonia. If they have not yet innovated it, the survivor's settlement gains the Ammonia innovation at no cost.
107	Rocks come loose from craggy rocks above the survivors. Each must roll 1d10+evasion. [= 1]Those who roll 7+ avoid the falling, rolling rocks. Those who fail lose 1 survival. Each survivor rolls a second time. On 8+ the survivor finds a Founding Stone.
108	Strange holes in the ground erupt with noxious fumes. Some of them erupt with fire. Any survivor wearing rawhide, cloth, or silk armor is able to cover their mouth and nose. All others lose 1 survival.
109	Survivor encounters a Bug Patch (as per terrain card). Roll 1d10 to scavenge. If carrying a Scavenger Kit, add +1 to the result = 1 An insect with your face stares back at you and scuttles away. Suffer 1 brain damage. / 2 You catch nothing. / 3 The insects scatter, leaving their meal behind. Gain 1 random basic resource. / 4+ Gain 1 random vermin resource.
110	Survivor finds a Bird Beak (bone resource item).
111	Survivor finds a Crab Spider (hide, vermin, consumable – if consumed then archive it and gain +3 survival).
112	Survivor finds a Dead Monster. Scavenge. Roll 1d10 event revealer = 1 - 3 Find nothing. / 4 - 6 Gain 1 random basic resource. / 7 -10 Gain 1 random resource from a monster resource deck of your choice.
113	Survivor finds a Dragon’s Tooth. After the end of the next fight, randomly select one of the monster’s AI cards. The survivor now has this as an optional action (replacing an attack action) in all future combats. Archive the card at that time. Ignore destruction of monster’s gear on attacks and insta-kill effects.
114	Survivor finds a glowing rainbow feather. When the party gathers around to look at it, it decreases their Hunt Experience by two, to a minimum of zero.
115	Survivor finds a perfect mix of throwing sand. If thrown at the opponent (as an action), they are blinded for a moment, skipping the opponent’s next turn. (Generally advised to use this last in the round.) The sand may only be used once and then must be archived.
116	Survivor finds a perfect splint. It may be used immediately, or later during a settlement event to fully heal a single broken arm or leg severe injury.
117	Survivor finds a pink stone – see c17 Dark Trader settlement event and make a roll.
118	Survivor finds a random bone item (1=bone dagger, 2=bone blade, 3=bone axe, 4=bone darts, 5=skull helm, 6=bone pickaxe, 7=bone sickle, 8-10=basic bone resource instead of an item).
119	Survivor finds a shadowy heart and picks it up. It is absorbed into them. On future Overwhelming Darkness events, total the Accepts Darkness number of all survivors currently in the party and add to the Overwhelming Darkness roll. Courage may now override Insanity on this table. All survivors gain 2 insanity.
120	Survivor finds an herb patch. The survivors consume herbs and berries. All survivors gain + 1 survival. See Herb Gathering story event in the core rulebook for next roll.
121	Survivor finds an unusual ant hill. They find a single Lonely Ant (vermin, consumable – if consumed it is archived, swap insanity and survival values).
122	Survivor finds another survivor’s corpse. Scavenge. Roll 1d10 event revealer = 1-2 Gain +1 insanity. / 3 - 5 Gain +2 insanity and 1 random basic resource. / 5 -10 Gain +3 insanity and 1 skull basic resource.
123	Survivor finds Debris. Event revealer roll 1d10 to scavenge. If carrying a Scavenger Kit, acid +3 to the result = 1 Entangled. You are knocked down. If you are alone, you die. If the party has 2+ total survivors, the other(s) free you.. / 2- 3 You ?nd nothing. / 4- 6 Find useful remains. Gain 1 random basic resource. / 8 - 9 Find useful gear. Gain 1 Bone Blade gear card. / 10+ Find rare gear. Gain 1 Scrap Sword gear card.
124	The area becomes lush and green, and the party finds a grove. Choose to encounter the Flower Knight or avoid it.
125	The camaraderie of the hunting party refreshes all survivors in the party. Decrease Hunt XP by 1 each (minimum 0). Each survivor rolls 1d10 = If the roll is less than or equal to their current luck bonus+2, they decrease Hunt XP by another 1.
126	The event revealer find a belt with special loops and hooks on it. The survivors may now make throwing bandoliers. These take no gear slots themselves, and may hold up to three gear items intended for throwing, consumption, or healing on them. They require 1 hide, pelt, or leather to make each bandolier.
127	The event revealer find a quiver made to hold arrows. The survivors may now make quivers. These take no gear slots themselves, and may hold up to three arrow gear items. They require 3 hide, pelt, or leather to make each quiver.
128	The event revealer finds a plant with great potency. When (and if) they arrive back at the settlement, they may choose to perform the Intimacy story event, with +3 on the roll. The child(ren) gain +1 in the highest permanent stat of each parent, in addition to any other bonuses from innovations.
129	The event revealer finds the mangled corpse of a human. It is clutching a container made of leather, with straps attached that make it convenient to hold items. The survivors may now make backpacks (the one found is destroyed in their study of it). They require 3 hide, pelts, or leather to make each one. Each survivor outfitted with a backpack (they take no gear slot) is granted an additional 3 gear slots, with the gear grid now being in a 4 column by 3 row grid. Any additional time this event is encountered, the survivors find a way to enhance the pack, and may add one more slot at the cost of 1 hide, pelt, or leather for each pack modified.
130	The event revealer spots a bright light, and leads the party to a new lantern hoard. Any survivors currently missing a lantern may replace theirs. If found prior to Overwhelming Darkness, they ignore that event as they remain near the comforting light. 1d10 event revealer = 1 - 3 Find one Dying Lantern item. / 4 - 7 Find one Vibrant Lantern (c153). / 8 - 10 Find one Broken Lantern (c223).
131	The event revealer spots a small tree nearby. As the survivors approach, they realize that it is a Lonely Tree sapling. Choose to approach it or avoid it. If approached, begin a showdown with a Lonely Tree that has 5 AI card wounds. If the survivors kill the tree, they receive half the normal resource cards.
132	The event revealer spots an odd device in the ruins. It is capable of making gunpowder and bullets for the Deathpact weapon (from the Manhunter). The survivors take it with them, and if they also have Deathpact, the weapon becomes usable once per showdown.
133	The ground gives way beneath the event revealer as they sink into quicksand! Roll 1d10+(highest evasion in entire party) event revealer = 1-2 They sink too fast, disappearing from sight. They are dead. / 3-5 They go under the sand, but another survivor pulls them free. Event revealer loses 1 survival. / 6-9 Event revealer sinks rapidly, but others pull them free without mishap. / 10+ Event revealer's foot touches something, and they pull it up as others free them. Gain 1 random item (any type).
134	The hunting party runs into another hunting party. Roll d10 event revealer = 1 - 3 Fight / 4 - 9 Trade / 10 Join players settlement
135	The hunting party stumbles on to a finished combat. Roll d10 event revealer = 1 - 5 new combat as something was drawn to the carnage. The monster is a [rollmonster1]. / 6 - 10 find some scraps from the fight (1d4-1 random resources).
136	The party comes across a field, where a group of 4 people are using sickles to gather herbs. The party may trade any weapon or piece of armor with them for one of their bone sickles.
137	The party comes across a hill, of which the side has crumbled away, revealing an ore vein. A group of 4 people are using pickaxes to mine the ore. The party may trade any weapon or piece of armor with them for one of their bone pickaxes.
138	The party comes across an Acanthus Plant! Roll 1d10. If any survivor in the party has a Sickle, instead roll 2d10 and add the results. = 1 - 2 Somethirig bites you! Suffer 1 arm damage. / 3 - 4 Find nothing. / 5 - 7 Find something tasty and consume it. If you do, gain + 1 survival. / 8+ Gain 1 Fresh Acanthus strange resource.
139	The party encounters a group from another settlement that are seeking to trade. Exchange any one basic resource for one other (from the settlement stores).
140	The party encounters a wandering survivor. He or she may be added to the party for the rest of the hunt and then added to the settlement if desired. [rollsurvivor]
141	The party encounters an injured Screaming Antelope - choose to avoid it or fight it. (Has 1/2 resources and 1/2 AI cards, choose Screaming Antelope difficulty level.)
142	The party encounters an injured White Lion - choose to avoid it or fight it. (Has 1/2 resources and 1/2 AI cards, choose White Lion difficulty level.)
143	The party encounters an UNinjured Screaming Antelope - choose to avoid it or fight it.
144	The party encounters an UNinjured White Lion - choose to avoid it or fight it.
145	The party encounters another party in the wild. The others are banging bones on skulls in rhythm. If the event revealer's settlement has not innovated Music, then they may now spend the resources (from the settlement or those with them) to gain the innovation for their own settlement. No endeavor is charged. If they already have the Drums innovation, roll on the Drums card for an immediate benefit.
146	The party encounters another party in the wild. The others are telling a story of their recent hunt. If the event revealer's settlement has innovated education and symposium, they now gain the Storytelling innovation for free. Roll 1d10 event revealer = 1 - 3 The events of the other group are so horrifying that the event revealer's party all gain +1 insanity. / 4 - 5 The events of the other group are enlightening. The event revealer's party all gain +1 understanding. / 6 - 10 The event revealer's party learns how to cope with the stress of the hunt. -1 Hunt XP (to minimum 0).
147	The party find a cave with drawings on the wall. If the settlement has not yet innovated Pictograph, but has innovated Paint, then they gain Pictograph now at no cost.
148	The party finds a group of carefully laid out graves, the remnants of a lost settlement. If the survivors in the current party chose "Grave Digger," they have the option of looting the graves. If they do, they gain 1 piece of gear. d10 event revealer = 1 - 3 Weapon / 4 - 6 Armor piece / 7 - 10 Random item (non-weapon/non-armor). All survivors in the party gain a -1 Luck token for their next battle, as they are temporarily cursed for desecrating the graves.
149	The party finds a horrific altar of three people stabbing a fourth lying on the altar. If a survivor with 3+ insanity and 3+ understanding is in the party, the group may sacrifice one of the party members to gain a benefit. Three of the four survivors must agree on the fourth to kill. If they choose to do so, the remaining party members all gain +1 insanity and roll 1d10 = 1 - 3 gain +1 permanent accuracy / 4 - 7 gain +1 permanent strength / 8 - 10 gain +1 permanent luck
150	The party finds an idyllic meadow, with bushes growing berries and soft grass. They may choose to stop and eat. If they do, they gain +1 Survival. Move the hunt monster two spaces closer, as it prowls this meadow in search of easy prey. If it passes by or lands on the event space currently occupied by the players, it ambushes them. Start the showdown immediately.
151	The plants in the area become barbed and sharp. They tear at the skin and clothing of the survivors. Chopping at the plants causes them to bounce and whip around dangerously. All survivors lose 1 survival.
152	The survivor find a living (lit) lantern. Add as an item on the grid. If carried, it prevents death (the 5th bleeding token) and is archived, taking with it all current bleeding tokens of that survivor.
153	The survivor finds a face with eyes that look around and then focus on the event revealer. If any survivor is blind, they may pluck an eyeball from the face and replace their blinded eye. They are no longer blind in that eye, remove the blind permanent injury. If this is done, all survivors in the party gain +2 insanity at the action.
154	The survivor finds a face with eyes that move around and then focus on the survivor. If any survivor is blind in one eye, they may pluck an eyeball from the face and replace their own damaged organ. They are no longer blind in that eye.
155	The survivor finds a scrap (basic resource).
156	The survivor finds a scrap of usable hide. Gain 1 basic hide resource.
157	The survivor finds an ore vein. Roll 1d10. If any survivor in the party is carrying a Pickaxe, instead roll 2d10 and add the results. Event revealer = 1 - 3 Find nothing. / 4 -12 Find something shiny. Gain 1 Iron strange resource. / 13 + Find a great haul! Gain 2 Iron strange resources.
158	The survivor finds an unstable luckstone. If in the item grid, it adds +1 Luck, but gives -1 Accuracy (penalty of 1 on the to-hit roll).
159	The survivor finds minerals. See Mineral Gathering on page 135 of the main rulebook.
160	The survivors encounter Adam & Anna: Explorers of Death, just as an unusual White Lion is stalking them. Begin a White Lion showdown, adding the pair to the battle. See KD Beta Scenarios Book-3-19.pdf for details. Note that if the (LY: 6) number is higher than the current Lantern Year of the settlement, modify the monster's rolls as follows. Current Lantern Year is lower by: 1-2 -1 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -1 Toughness, -1 random AI card / 3-4 -2 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -2 Toughness, -2 random AI cards / 5-6 -3 Accuracy, -1 Strength (max 2), -3 Toughness, -3 random AI card / 7-8 -4 Accuracy, -2 Strength (min 1), -4 Toughness, -4 random AI cards / 9-10 -5 Accuracy, -3 Strength (min 1), -5 Toughness, -5 random AI cards / 11+ skip this event. Roll 1d4 = 1 Add a Lonely Tree to the board / 2 - 4 Normal board layout.
161	The survivors encounter Allison the Twilight Knight in their travels. She challenges the survivors to prove themselves in battle. Choose your 4 best survivors to defend the pride of the settlement. As the survivors step up to fight, they know that, for Allison, this is merely a training exercise. Use KD Beta Scenarios Book-3-19.pdf to setup the showdown. Note that if the (LY: 9) number is higher than the current Lantern Year of the settlement, modify the monster's rolls as follows. Current Lantern Year is lower by: 1-2 -1 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -1 Toughness, -1 random AI card / 3-4 -2 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -2 Toughness, -2 random AI cards / 5-6 -3 Accuracy, -1 Strength (max 2), -3 Toughness, -3 random AI card / 7-8 -4 Accuracy, -2 Strength (min 1), -4 Toughness, -4 random AI cards / 9-10 -5 Accuracy, -3 Strength (min 1), -5 Toughness, -5 random AI cards / 11+ skip this event. Roll 1d4 = 1 Add a Lonely Tree to the board / 2 - 4 Normal board layout.
162	The survivors encounter an odd man with glowing eyes. He offers to train the survivors in the party in the following fighting art if they trade him two basic resources for each survivor he trains (the resources can be from the settlement stores). He knows:
[rollfightingart]
163	The survivors encounter Candy & Cola just as a White Lion is stalking the pair. Begin a White Lion showdown, adding Candy as a survivor in the battle. See KD Beta Scenarios Book-3-19.pdf for details. This lion is LY: 1.
164	The survivors pass through an area with plants laden with berries. Roll 1d10 Event revealer = 1 The berries are powerfully poisonous. Event revealer dies. / 2 Berries are poisonous, but it is not noticed quickly. All survivors obtain a -1 Strength token for the rest of the hunt as they are ill. / 3 - 4 The berries are unhealthy. All survivors lose 1 survival. / 5 - 7 The berries are tasty and healthy. No ill effect. / 8 - 9 The tasty berries are rich in nutrients, all survivors add 1 survival. / 10 The berries are delicious and grant the survivors a +1 strength token for the rest of the hunt.
165	The survivors see a pair of monsters facing off against one another ([rollmonster1] vs [rollmonster2]). They can choose to aid one, and if so, they must declare which one they are aiding. If they do not aid one, then the monsters fight one another (have the players setup two monsters and do the AI cards against the other monster). They may choose to attack the remaining monster after the battle, but only gain 1/2 resources. If they aid a monster, a second of the other type appears to join the battle (so 2 foes and 1 ally). The two foes concentrate on the ally until it is dead. The survivors get full resources for the foes, and a gift from the ally if it survives. Roll 1d10 + remaining AI cards of the ally = 1 - 5 gain 1 basic resource / 6 - 10 gain 1 special resource of the foe / 11 - 15 gain 1 full random item / 16+ gain 2 full random items. /// Note that if the (LY) number is higher than the current Lantern Year of the settlement, modify the monster's rolls as follows. Current Lantern Year is lower by: 1-2 -1 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -1 Toughness, -1 random AI card / 3-4 -2 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -2 Toughness, -2 random AI cards / 5-6 -3 Accuracy, -1 Strength (max 2), -3 Toughness, -3 random AI card / 7-8 -4 Accuracy, -2 Strength (min 1), -4 Toughness, -4 random AI cards / 9-10 -5 Accuracy, -3 Strength (min 1), -5 Toughness, -5 random AI cards / 11+ skip this event.
166	The survivors spot a [rollmonster1] nearby. The terrain is advantageous to them, and they may ambush the creature, or may slink off in fear. If they choose to attack, begin the showdown immediately, skipping the monster's first attack. Note that if the (LY: xxx) number is higher than the current Lantern Year of the settlement, modify the monster's rolls as follows. Current Lantern Year is lower by: 1-2 -1 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -1 Toughness, -1 random AI card / 3-4 -2 Accuracy, -2 Strength, -2 Toughness, -2 random AI cards / 5-6 -3 Accuracy, -3 Strength (max 2), -3 Toughness, -3 random AI card / 7-8 -4 Accuracy, -3 Strength (min 1), -4 Toughness, -4 random AI cards / 9-10 -5 Accuracy, -4 Strength (min 1), -5 Toughness, -5 random AI cards / 11+ skip this event. Roll 1d4 = 1 Add a Lonely Tree to the board / 2 - 4 Normal board layout.
167	The survivors spot a King's Man who is missing his halberd. Begin a showdown as listed under "Paul the Savior" in KD Beta Scenarios Book-3-19.pdf, but without Paul the Savior. Note that if the (LY: 5) number is higher than the current Lantern Year of the settlement, modify the monster's rolls as follows. Current Lantern Year is lower by: 1-2 -1 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -1 Toughness, -1 random AI card / 3-4 -2 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -2 Toughness, -2 random AI cards / 5-6 -3 Accuracy, -1 Strength (max 2), -3 Toughness, -3 random AI card / 7-8 -4 Accuracy, -2 Strength (min 1), -4 Toughness, -4 random AI cards / 9-10 -5 Accuracy, -3 Strength (min 1), -5 Toughness, -5 random AI cards / 11+ skip this event. Roll 1d4 = 1 Add a Lonely Tree to the board / 2 - 4 Normal board layout.
168	The survivors spot a shadowy figure waving to them in the darkness. Upon approaching, they discover a statue with one arm that points at them, waves, and otherwise moves around. An insane survivor may break off the arm and bring it back to the settlement. Gain the Stone Arm gear item.
169	The survivors spot a Silver Antelope being chased by a female human. If they choose to intervene, use the Kara Black encounter from KD Beta Scenarios Book-3-19.pdf. Note that if the (LY: 6) number is higher than the current Lantern Year of the settlement, modify the monster's rolls as follows. Current Lantern Year is lower by: 1-2 -1 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -1 Toughness, -1 random AI card / 3-4 -2 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -2 Toughness, -2 random AI cards / 5-6 -3 Accuracy, -1 Strength (max 2), -3 Toughness, -3 random AI card / 7-8 -4 Accuracy, -2 Strength (min 1), -4 Toughness, -4 random AI cards / 9-10 -5 Accuracy, -3 Strength (min 1), -5 Toughness, -5 random AI cards / 11+ skip this event. Roll 1d4 = 1 Add a Lonely Tree to the board / 2 - 4 Normal board layout.
170	The survivors spot an injured [rollmonster1] nearby. The terrain is advantageous to the survivors and they may ambush the creature, or may slink off in fear. If they choose to attack, begin the showdown immediately, skipping the monster's first attack. Position the survivors where they wish as they perform the ambush. Note that if the (LY: xxx) number is higher than the current Lantern Year of the settlement, modify the monster's rolls as follows. Current Lantern Year is lower by: 1-2 -1 Accuracy, -1 Strength, -1 Toughness, -1 random AI card / 3-4 -2 Accuracy, -2 Strength, -2 Toughness, -2 random AI cards / 5-6 -3 Accuracy, -3 Strength (max 2), -3 Toughness, -3 random AI card / 7-8 -4 Accuracy, -3 Strength (min 1), -4 Toughness, -4 random AI cards / 9-10 -5 Accuracy, -4 Strength (min 1), -5 Toughness, -5 random AI cards / 11+ skip this event. Roll 1d4 = 1 Add a Lonely Tree to the board / 2 - 4 Normal board layout. After modifying the core stats/cards, remove half of the AI cards due to the monster's injured status.
171	The survivors stop to drink, but the water in this area is unusual. 1d10 Event revealer = 1-2 Something has died nearby and fouled the water. All survivors roll 1d10, on a 6+ they are sick and suffer a -1 Strength token that lasts for the rest of this hunt. / 3-4 The event revealer sees a face deep in the water. They go down into the water after it. All other survivors roll 1d10. If any roll equal or below their Understanding score, they dive in and pull the event revealer out. If none do, the event revealer rolls the same to try to realize they are being misled. If they roll above their Understanding score, they drown. / 5-6 The water is slightly foul. All survivors lose 1 survival. / 7-10 The water is unusually enriching, all survivors gain a +1 Strength token for the rest of this hunt.
172	The watchful eyes of the survivor pick out a sharp, loose stone on the ground. The active survivor finds a Founding Stone!
173	There is an abundance of small spiders in the area. Follow them to face Spidicules! If so, begin showdown immediately. Party ambushes Spidicules.
174	Vines reach out and grab the survivors with deadly strength and speed, stretching limbs to their maximum and beyond. Any survivor with a with a blade (or founding stone) weapon in their grid may roll 1d10+strength. [= 1]On a 7+ they cut themselves free in time. If any survivors have no blades, each of them loses 1 survival for each survivor that fails to free themselves. If they do not have enough survival, they suffer 1 bleeding token and -1 strength for the rest of the hunt due to cuts and dislocated joints.
175	Water gathers in a small pool. Any survivor may choose to consume from the pool and roll on the table below. Add +2 to the result if the survivor has 3+ understanding. Insane survivors begin to weep uncontrollably. lf any survivor is insane, roll again on the hunt event table before moving on the hunt board. 1d10 Any survivor = 1- 3 The water is salty and sour. You can't help thinking about what you might be drinking. Suffer 1 brain event damage. / 4 - 6 Refreshing. Nothing happens. / 7-8 The water is cleaner than most. You may heal up to 2 injury levels on any one hit location. / 9+ The water is invigorating. Gain +1 speed token.
